Bloc 
Computer Science Fundamentals 
Algorithms Introduction 

1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;
	IF coffee is whole bean
		grind coffee 
	ELSE 
		proceed to next step 
	INSERT filter into coffee maker 
	ADD one tbsp of ground coffee for every one cup of coffee desired 
	ADD one cup of water for every tbsp of ground coffee
	TURN ON coffee maker and allow coffee to brew
	POUR coffee into cup and enjoy
END 

Washing dishes;
	IF dishes are dirty 
		RINSE each dish 
		APPLY soap to each dish
			SCRUB dishes until thoroughly clean
		RINSE dishes of all soap
		LET dry
		PLACE dishes back in cabinet
	ELSE 
		RELAX dishes are already done
END 

Going Snowboarding 
	WAKE early and check snow report 
		IF snowfall is less than 3"
			TURN OFF alarm and go back to bed 
		ELSE 
			PACK gear into car 
			DRIVE to desired ski resort 
			PARK and head toward shortest lift line
			ENJOY your day on the mountain
END 

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

Company #1 - Pandora 
	Pandora uses an algorithm to create custom radio stations specific to a listener's preferences and interests. This provided a unique listening experience that increased the likelihood of listeners discovering music they enjoy. Additionally, the more feedback a user provides the app, the better the stations fits the user's tastes. 

Company #2 - Mervin Manufacturing 
	Mervin MFG (AKA GNU and Lib Tech) builds snowboards that revolutionized the way boards are built. Their Magne-Traction shape uses "wavy" sidewalls providing more points of contact between the snowboard and the surface of the slope, giving the board more traction and predictability in unpredictable terrain. Prior to this technology, riding packed snow and ice wasn't much fun, but because of this added feature riders can enjoy these conditions with more confidence and overall satisfaction.  

Company #3 - WAZE 	
	The navigation app WAZE created a more accurate map application by allowing users to provide much of the information other users see. For example collisions can be seen on WAZE sooner than Google Maps because users can push the information to the app quickly and easily for other users to see. 


3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm is one that uses the least steps possible to achieve a desired outcome, while being easy to understand and implement. I'm not positive the last part is required to be considered efficient, but based on previous checkpoints, code that it ultra efficient but impossible for other programmers to understand, likely leads to greater inefficiencies in the long run, even if it accomplished the task at hand just fine. I would imagine long term maintainability should be considered when determining efficient vs inefficient algorithms. 





